Add documentation for security config upgrade feature (#6634)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/access-control/api.md

}
```

> ### Check configuration upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check if configuration upgrade is available
```

Author: Reorder the title - trying to keep the word count down since its copied around into tables of contents.

Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

> Checks the configuration bundled with the Security plugin against the existing security configuration, returns if an upgrade can be performed and what resources would be updated.

Reviewer: I think we should add a blurb on why someone would use this endpoint.

wdyt of this?

OpenSearch adds new functionality between releases. When a new plugin is added to the default bundle, it also includes reserved roles for cluster administrators to map to users to permit usage of the new functionality. This endpoint helps cluster administrators check if the cluster is missing default roles or has stale definitions of default roles.

Author: Added a note for this section

Author: ![image](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/assets/2754967/77158de3-e787-4186-87f3-441c6a57cffc)

How this looks rendered out

#### Request

```json
GET _plugins/_security/api/_upgrade_check
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

```json
{
  "status" : "OK",
  "upgradeAvailable" : true,
  "upgradeActions" : {
    "roles" : {
      "add" : [ "flow_framework_full_access" ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Response fields

| Field    | Data type  | Description                   |
|:---------|:-----------|:------------------------------|
| `upgradeAvailable`   | Boolean     | True when an upgrade can be performed.  |
| `upgradeActions`  | Object     | The security objects that would be modified by an upgrade.  |

### Perform configuration upgrade
Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

Adds and updates resources on the existing security configuration from the configuration bundled with the Security plugin.

> These bundled configuration files can be found in the `opensearch-project/security/config` directory.  Default configuration files are updated on OpenSearch upgrade, whereas the cluster configuration is only updated by the cluster operators. This request used to bridge these scenarios.

Reviewer: Shouldn't the path be `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/opensearch-security/`? It may be different in previous major versions.

Reviewer: nit: Change `This request used to bridge these scenarios.` to `This request is used to source new security configuration defaults like additions or changes to reserved roles.`

Author: Reworded this a little - think I got the heart of your concern addressed feel free to reopen/resuggest

> These bundled configuration files can be found in the `opensearch-project/security/config` directory.  Default configuration files are updated on OpenSearch upgrade, whereas the cluster configuration is only updated by the cluster operators. This request used to bridge these scenarios.

Reviewer 2: nit: `This request is used to bridge these scenarios.`

Author: additive might the the case with roles, but its possible other upgrade actions will take place in the future, I'd rather not provide this detail so there is more flexibility.

#### Request

```json
POST _plugins/_security/api/_upgrade_check
{
  "configs": ["roles"]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Request fields

| Field           | Data type  | Description                                                                                                       | Required |
|:----------------|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|

> | configs              | Array     | Specifies the configurations to be upgraded. This field can include any combination of the following values: `actiongroups`,`allowlist`, `audit`, `internalusers`, `nodesdn`, `roles`, `rolesmappings`, `tenants`.  If absent, all supported configurations are included.  | No      |

Reviewer: Some of these descriptions are pretty long, have you tested how they are rendered?

Should we try to render this list like a bullet-point list?

Author: I've looked around, I'm going to update this like another example from within this site: https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/managing-data-prepper/peer-forwarder/#configuration

Line wrapping is on by default, but I'll see how these render out

Author: ![image](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/assets/2754967/d3a6e4ab-af48-42ef-9228-b8c3cebf66ee)

}
```

### Configuration upgrade check

Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

> Checks the cuurent configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then the API returns whether or not can be performed and what resources can be updated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checks the cuurent configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then, the API returns whether or not can an upgrade can be performed and what resources can be updated.
```

> Checks the cuurent configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then, the API returns whether or not can be performed and what resources can be updated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Checks the cuurent configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then the API returns whether or not can be performed and what resources can be updated.
```

> Checks the cuurent configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then, the API returns whether or not can be performed and what resources can be updated.

Reviewer 4: There appear to be some words missing in the second sentence.

Author: > Original text: Checks the configuration bundled with the Security plugin against the existing security configuration, returns if an upgrade can be performed and what resources would be updated.

Here is a diagram of what the actual flow / comparisons are. (Thanks ChatGPT!)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as User
    participant D as Configuration on Disk
    participant S as SecurityPlugin
    participant M as Configuration in SecurityPlugin Memory
    U->>+S: API Call to Check Configuration
    S->>+D: Retrieve Current Configuration from Disk
    D-->>-S: Current Disk Configuration
    S->>+M: Check Configuration in Memory
    M-->>-S: Current in Memory Configuration
    S->>S: Compare Configurations
    alt Configurations Match
        S-->>U: No Update Needed
    else Configurations Do Not Match
        S->>S: Determine Resources for Update
        S-->>U: Update Can be Performed, List resources to Update
    end

```

Author: I feel like that original text might be a better starting point, but let me know if you'd like me to workshop it more

Reviewer 3: @peternied: I think I'm confused as to what you mean by "bundled"? When I hear bundled, I assume the API is checking for upgrades either against the upstream instance (The newest artifact) or the version the artifact the user downloaded. But, if the user has to download a new artifact for the latest Security Plugin information to persist in memory, isn't there a step we're missing in the documentation then?

Author: I mean `the version the artifact the user downloaded`.

This API is for after an upgrade was performed, such as a [Rolling Upgrade](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/upgrade-opensearch/rolling-upgrade/).

Note; I think this highlights another part of the documentation that I should include 'now that you've upgraded you can [optionally] upgrade the security configuration via this API' which links to this documentation

> Checks the current configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the latest Security plugin bundled with OpenSearch. Then, the API responds indicating whether or not an upgrade can be performed and what resources can be updated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checks the current configuration bundled with the host's Security plugin and compares it to the version of the OpenSearch Security plugin the user downloaded. Then, the API responds indicating whether or not an upgrade can be performed and what resources can be updated.
```

> Between new OpenSearch version new defaults to the security configuration are added.  This endpoint helps cluster operators check if the cluster is missing defaults or has stale definitions of defaults. 

Reviewer: wdyt about this?

Between new OpenSearch versions, there may be changes to the default security configuration like the addition or modification of roles for plugins included in the default OpenSearch distribution. This endpoint helps cluster operators check if the cluster is out of sync with the defaults.

> When a new OpenSearch version is released, there are changes to the default security configuration.  This endpoint helps cluster operators check if the cluster is missing defaults or has stale definitions of defaults.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With each new OpenSearch version, there are changes to the default security configuration. This endpoint helps cluster operators determine whether the cluster is missing defaults or has stale definitions of defaults.
```

{: .note}

#### Request

```json
GET _plugins/_security/api/_upgrade_check
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

```json
{
  "status" : "OK",
  "upgradeAvailable" : true,
  "upgradeActions" : {
    "roles" : {
      "add" : [ "flow_framework_full_access" ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Response fields

| Field    | Data type  | Description                   |
|:---------|:-----------|:------------------------------|

> | `upgradeAvailable`   | Boolean     | Responds with `true` when an upgrade to the security configuration is avaliable.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `upgradeAvailable`   | Boolean     | Responds with `true` when an upgrade to the security configuration is available.  |
```

> | `upgradeActions`  | Object list    | A list of security objects that would be modified if upgrading the host's Security Plugin.  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `upgradeActions`  | Object list    | A list of security objects that would be modified when upgrading the host's Security plugin.  |
```

### Configuration upgrade

Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

Adds and updates resources on a host's existing security configuration from the configuration bundled with the latest version of the Security plugin.

> These bundled configuration files can be found in the `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/security/config` directory.  Default configuration files are updated on OpenSearch upgrade, whereas the cluster configuration is only updated by the cluster operators.  This endpoint helps cluster operators upgrade missing defaults and stale defaults definitions. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These bundled configuration files can be found in the `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/security/config` directory. Default configuration files are updated when OpenSearch is upgraded, whereas the cluster configuration is only updated by the cluster operators. This endpoint helps cluster operators upgrade missing defaults and stale default definitions. 
```

> These bundled configuration files can be found in the `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/security/config` directory.  Default configuration files are updated on OpenSearch upgrade, whereas the cluster configuration is only updated by the cluster operators.  This endpoint helps cluster operators upgrade missing defaults and stale defaults definitions. 

Reviewer 4: "cluster operator" (singular)?

> Between new OpenSearch version new defaults to the security configuration are added. This endpoint helps cluster operators check if the cluster is missing default roles or has stale definitions of default roles. 

Reviewer 2: +1 not sure if this note is required.

> Between new OpenSearch version new defaults to the security configuration are added. This endpoint helps cluster operators check if the cluster is missing default roles or has stale definitions of default roles. 

Author: Removing

#### Request

```json
POST _plugins/_security/api/_upgrade_perform
{
  "configs" : [ "roles" ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Request fields

| Field           | Data type  | Description                                                                                                       | Required |
|:----------------|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|

> | `configs`              | Array    | Specifies the configurations to be upgraded. This field can include any combination of the following configuration:s `actiongroups`,`allowlist`, `audit`, `internalusers`, `nodesdn`, `roles`, `rolesmappings`, `tenants`.<br>  Default is all supported configurations.  | No      |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `configs`              | Array    | Specifies the configurations to be upgraded. This field can include any combination of the following configurations: `actiongroups`,`allowlist`, `audit`, `internalusers`, `nodesdn`, `roles`, `rolesmappings`, `tenants`.<br>  Default is all supported configurations.  | No      |
```

> | configs              | Array     | Specifies the configurations to be upgraded. This field can include any combination of the following configurations `actiongroups`,`allowlist`, `audit`, `internalusers`, `nodesdn`, `roles`, `rolesmappings`, `tenants`.<br>  Default is all supported configurations.  | No      |

Reviewer 2: `Default is all supported configurations` to `If none specified, all supported configurations will be included`. Thoughts?

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I think its fine as is.

#### Example response

```json
{
  "status" : "OK",
  "upgrades" : {
    "roles" : {
      "add" : [ "flow_framework_full_access" ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Response fields

| Field    | Data type  | Description                   |
|:---------|:-----------|:------------------------------|

> | `upgrades`    | Object    | A container for the upgrade results, organized by configuration type, such as `roles`. Each configuration type that has changed will be represented as a key in this object.           |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `upgrades`    | Object    | A container for the upgrade results, organized by configuration type, such as `roles`. Each changed configuration type will be represented as a key in this object.           |
```

> | `roles`     | Object    | Contains a list role-based action keys of objects modified by the upgrade. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `roles`     | Object    | Contains a list of role-based action keys of objects modified by the upgrade. |
```
